docs: initial documentation of the basic features (#345)
react-native-community/cli: docs/plugins.md

# Plugins

Plugin is a JavaScript package that extends built-in React Native CLI features. It can provide an array of additional commands to run or platforms to target.

For example, `react-native-windows` package is a plugin that provides `react-native run-windows` command and `windows` platform.

Details of this particular integration as well as how to provide an additional platform for React Native were described in a [`dedicated section`](./platforms.md) about platforms.

## How does it work?

Except for React Native dependencies, where configuration is implicit, each package needs to have a `react-native.config.js` at the root folder in order to be discovered by the CLI as a plugin.

```js
module.exports = {
  commands: [
    {
      name: 'foo-command',

>       func: () => console.log('It worked')

Reviewer: provide function interface in a comment or so, it's nice to know what arguments you have available

Author: What do you mean?

Reviewer: nevermind, I wrote this before going further

    }
  ]
};
```

At the startup, React Native CLI reads configuration from all dependencies listed in `package.json` and reduces them into a single configuration. 

At the end, an array of commands concatenated from all plugins is passed on to the CLI to be loaded after built-in commands.

## Command interface

#### `name: string`

Name that will be used in order to run the command. 

Note: If you want your command to accept additional arguments, make sure to include them in the name.

For example, `my-command <argument>` will require an argument to be provided and will throw a validation error otherwise. Alternatively, `my-command [argument]` will accept an argument, but will not throw when run without it. In that case, make sure to check for its presence.

> #### `func: (argv: string[], config: ConfigT, options: Object) => ?Promise<void>`

Reviewer: I think it would be more readable to move the type to a code block and leave the section title to be just `#### func`

Author: I don't know. Feels to me that referring to "last argument" or "first argument" in that case would be less understandable than it is right now.

Author: either way, I did it.

##### `description?: string`

Optional description of your option. When provided, will be used to output a better help information.

##### `parse?: (val: string) => any`

Parsing function that can be used to transform a raw (string) option as passed by the user into a format expected by your function.

##### `default?: string | boolean | number | (config: ConfigT) => string | boolean | number`

Default value for the option when not provided. Can be either a primitive value or a function, that receives a configuration and returns a primitive.

Useful when you want to use project settings as default value for your option.

#### `usage?: string`

#### `examples?: ExampleT[]`

An array of example usage of the command to be printed to the user.

```js
type ExampleT = {
  desc: string,
  cmd: string,
};
```

##### `desc: string`

String that describes this particular usage.

##### `cmd: string`

A command with arguments and options (if applicable) that can be run in order to achieve the desired goal.

## Migrating from `rnpm` configuration

> The changes are non-breaking hence the migration should be straight-forward. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The changes are mostly cosmetic so the migration should be pretty straight-forward. 
```

# Plugins

Plugin is a JavaScript package that extends built-in React Native CLI features. It can provide an array of additional commands to run or platforms to target.

For example, `react-native-windows` package is a plugin that provides `react-native run-windows` command and `windows` platform.

Details of this particular integration as well as how to provide an additional platform for React Native were described in a [`dedicated section`](./platforms.md) about platforms.

## How does it work?

Except for React Native dependencies, where configuration is implicit, each package needs to have a `react-native.config.js` at the root folder in order to be discovered by the CLI as a plugin.

```js

> module.exports = {

Reviewer: How about adding a short description to this file? 

> Below is an example of a project that exports a command named `foo-command` that logs "It worked" and exits.

It feels out of place without it.

  commands: [
    {
      name: 'foo-command',
      func: () => console.log('It worked')
    }
  ]
};
```

At the startup, React Native CLI reads configuration from all dependencies listed in `package.json` and reduces them into a single configuration. 

At the end, an array of commands concatenated from all plugins is passed on to the CLI to be loaded after built-in commands.

## Command interface

> ```js

Reviewer: consider using `ts` to have better types highlighting

type Command = {
  name: string,
  description?: string,
  func: (argv: Array<string>, config: ConfigT, args: Object) => ?Promise<void>,
  options?: Array<{
    name: string,
    description?: string,
    parse?: (val: string) => any,
    default?:
      | string
      | boolean
      | number
      | ((config: ConfigT) => string | boolean | number),
  }>,
  examples?: Array<{
    desc: string,
    cmd: string,
  }>,
};
```

> Note: `ConfigT` is described in [`configuration` section](./configuration.md)

#### `name`

> Name that will be used in order to run the command. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A name that will be used in order to run the command. 
```

#### `examples`

An array of example usage of the command to be printed to the user.

##### `examples.desc`

String that describes this particular usage.

##### `examples.cmd`

A command with arguments and options (if applicable) that can be run in order to achieve the desired goal.

## Migrating from `rnpm` configuration

The changes are mostly cosmetic so the migration should be pretty straight-forward. 

### Changing the configuration

A `plugin` property should be renamed to `commands`.

For example, the following `rnpm` configuration inside `package.json`:
```json
{
  "rnpm": {
    "plugin": "./path-to-commands.js",
  }
}
```
should be moved to a `react-native.config.js`:
```js
module.exports = {
  commands: require('./path-to-commands.js')
};
```
provided that `./path-to-commands.js` returns an array of commands.

### Renaming command options

If your command accepts options, rename `command` to `name`.

For example,
```js
module.exports = {
  name: 'foo',
  func: () => console.log('My work'),
  options: [
    {
      command: '--reset-cache, --resetCache',
      description: 'Removes cached files',
    }
  ]
}
```

> should be changed to:

Reviewer: I think it would be way easier to digest if we did a simple diff:

```diff
 module.exports = {
   name: 'foo',
   func: () => console.log('My work'),
   options: [
     {
-      command: '--reset-cache, --resetCache',
+      name: '--reset-cache, --resetCache',
       description: 'Removes cached files',
     }
   ]
 }
```
